*** Pre Security pathway ***



OFFENSIVE SECURITY (red teams)
aims to identify and exploit system vulnerabilities to enhance security measures
  Red teams and penetration testers specialize in these offensive techniques.

using command-line application "Gobuster" to find hidden directories and pages

gobuster -u http://fakebank.thm -w wordlist.txt dir
-u is used to state the website we are scanning
-w takes a list of words to iterate through to find hidden pages
Gobuster scans website with each word in list, tells pages in list of page/directory names 




DEFENSIVE SECURITY (blue teams)
exploiting software bugs, leveraging insecure setups, and taking advantage of unenforced access control policies, 
    & preventing intrusions from occuring , detecting intrusions when they occur and responding properly 
      User cyber security awareness: Training users about cyber security helps protect against attacks targeting their systems
        Documenting and managing assets: We need to know the systems and devices we must manage and protect adequately
          Updating and patching systems: Ensuring that computers, servers, and network devices are correctly updated and patched against any known vulnerability 
        Setting up preventative security devices: firewall and intrusion prevention systems (IPS) are critical components of preventative security. 
        Firewalls control what network traffic can go inside and what can leave the system or network. IPS blocks any network traffic that matches present rules and attack signatures.
      Setting up logging and monitoring devices: Proper network logging and monitoring are essential for detecting malicious activities and intrusions. 
      If a new unauthorized device appears on our network, we should be able to detect it


  SECURITY OPERATIONS CENTER (SOC)
    Team that monitors network and its system detecting malicious cyber events 
      Vulnerabilities: Whenever a system vulnerability (weakness) is discovered, it is essential to fix it by installing a proper update or patch. When a fix is unavailable, the necessary measures should be taken to prevent an attacker from exploiting it. 
      Although remediating vulnerabilities is vital to a SOC, it is not necessarily assigned to them.
        Policy violations: A security policy is a set of rules required to protect the network and systems. For example, it might be a policy violation if users upload confidential company data to an online storage service.
          Unauthorized activity: Consider the case where a user’s login name and password are stolen, and the attacker uses them to log into the network. A SOC must detect and block such an event as soon as possible before further damage is done.
            Network intrusions: No matter how good your security is, there is always a chance for an intrusion. An intrusion can occur when a user clicks on a malicious link or when an attacker exploits a public server. 
            Either way, when an intrusion occurs, we must detect it as soon as possible to prevent further damage.



Threat Intelligence
    In this context, intelligence refers to information you gather about actual and potential enemies. A threat is any action that can disrupt or adversely affect a system.   
        Threat intelligence collects information to help the company better prepare against potential adversaries. The purpose would be to achieve a threat-informed defence.

Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR)
This section is about Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR), and we will cover:
    Digital Forensics: In defensive security, the focus of digital forensics shifts to analyzing evidence of an attack and its perpetrators and other areas such as intellectual property theft, cyber espionage, and possession of unauthorized content. Consequently, digital forensics will focus on different areas, such as: 
    File System: Analyzing a digital forensics image (low-level copy) of a system’s storage reveals much information, such as installed programs, created files, partially overwritten files, and deleted files.
    System memory: If the attacker runs their malicious program in memory without saving it to the disk, taking a forensic image (low-level copy) of the system memory is the best way to analyze its contents and learn about the attack.
    System logs: Each client and server computer maintains different log files about what is happening. Log files provide plenty of information about what happened on a system. Even if the attacker tries to clear their traces, some traces will remain.
    Network logs: Logs of the network packets that have traversed a network would help answer more questions about whether an attack is occurring and what it entails.
Incident Response: The four major phases of the incident response process are:
    Preparation: This requires a team trained and ready to handle incidents. Ideally, various measures are put in place to prevent incidents from happening in the first place.
    Detection and Analysis: The team has the necessary resources to detect any incident; moreover, it is essential to analyze any detected incident further to learn about its severity.
    Containment, Eradication, and Recovery: Once an incident is detected, it is crucial to stop it from affecting other systems, eliminate it, and recover the affected systems. For instance, when we notice that a system is infected with a computer virus, we would like to stop (contain) the virus from spreading to other systems, clean (eradicate) the virus, and ensure proper system recovery.
    Post-Incident Activity: After a successful recovery, a report is produced, and the lesson learned is shared to prevent similar future incidents.
Malware Analysis: stands for malicious software.
    Malware includes many types, such as:
    A virus is a piece of code (part of a program) that attaches itself to a program. It is designed to spread from one computer to another and works by altering, overwriting, and deleting files once it infects a computer. The result ranges from the computer becoming slow to unusable.
    Trojan Horse is a program that shows one desirable function but hides a malicious function underneath. For example, a victim might download a video player from a shady website that gives the attacker complete control over their system.
    Ransomware is a malicious program that encrypts the user’s files. Encryption makes the files unreadable without knowing the encryption password. The attacker offers the user the encryption password if the user is willing to pay a “ransom.”
  















