*** Pre Security pathway ***



OFFENSIVE SECURITY (red teams)
aims to identify and exploit system vulnerabilities to enhance security measures
  Red teams and penetration testers specialize in these offensive techniques.

using command-line application "Gobuster" to find hidden directories and pages

gobuster -u http://fakebank.thm -w wordlist.txt dir
-u is used to state the website we are scanning
-w takes a list of words to iterate through to find hidden pages
Gobuster scans website with each word in list, tells pages in list of page/directory names




DEFENSIVE SECURITY (blue teams)
exploiting software bugs, leveraging insecure setups, and taking advantage of unenforced access control policies, 
    & preventing intrusions from occuring , detecting intrusions when they occur and responding properly 
      User cyber security awareness: Training users about cyber security helps protect against attacks targeting their systems
        Documenting and managing assets: We need to know the systems and devices we must manage and protect adequately
          Updating and patching systems: Ensuring that computers, servers, and network devices are correctly updated and patched against any known vulnerability 
        Setting up preventative security devices: firewall and intrusion prevention systems (IPS) are critical components of preventative security. 
        Firewalls control what network traffic can go inside and what can leave the system or network. IPS blocks any network traffic that matches present rules and attack signatures.
      Setting up logging and monitoring devices: Proper network logging and monitoring are essential for detecting malicious activities and intrusions. 
      If a new unauthorized device appears on our network, we should be able to detect it



Penetraton Testing Ethics 
A penetration test is an authorised audit f a computer system's security and defences as agreed by the owners of the systems.  
  The legality of penetration is pretty clear cut in this sense; anything that falls outside of this agreement is deemed unauthorisd 
    A formal discussion occurs between the penetration tester and the system owner before the tester.
      Tools,techniques, and systems to be tested are agreed on
        The discussion forms the scope of the penetration testing agreement 
            This will determine the take of the test 
                Companies that provide this testing are held against frameworks and industry accreditation.
            Ex. National Cyber Security centre has the CHECK accreditationscheme in the UK
              meaning that only approved comanies can conduct authorised penetration tests of public sector and CNI sytems and networks"(NCSC)
                  Ethics is the moral debate between right and where an action may be legal , it may go againast an individual's belief system of right and wrong.
                    Penetration testers will often be faced with potentially morally questionable decisions during a penetration test.
                      Ex. they are gaining access to a database and being presented with potential sensitive data.
                        Performing a phising attack on an employee to test an organisation's human security.
                          If that action hass been agreed upon during the initial stages, it is legal, but ethically questionable.  
                      These groups of hacer are sorted into three, where the ethics and motivation behind their actions determine what hat they are sorted into.
                        Hat 1 White 
                         These are the good people
                         remains with the law and use these skills to benefit the enviroment around them
                      Hat 2 Grey 
                      uses skills to benefit other 
                      does not respect or follow the law or thical standards a all times
                  Hat 3 Black
                    Criminals
                    Seeks damage owards other organisations 
                    gains some form f finacial benefit at the cost of others




Rules of Engagement 
  document that is created at the initial stages of a eneration testing engagement
    consits of three main sections
      Ultimately responsible for deciding how the engagement is carried out
        Permision  
          Section of document that gives explicit permission for the engagemnt to be carried out 
          Permission is essential to legally protect individuals and organisations for the activities they carry out 
        Test Scope 
          Section of document that will annotate specific targets to which the engagement
          Ex. pentration test may only apply to certain servers or applications but not the entire network
        Rules 
          Section of the document that defines exactly the techniques that are permitted during the engagemtn.
          Ex. rules may specifically state that techniques such as phising ttacks are prohibited, but MITH (MAN IN THE MIDDLE) attacks are okay



Methodologies 
  steps the penetration tester take during an engagement
  a smart one would be known as a practical methodology (steps that are taken are relevant to the situation at hand)
  Ex. having a methodology that you would use to test the scurity of a web application is not practical when you have to test the security of a network
    Stages of Methodology
    Info Gathering 
      This stge involves collecting as much publicall accesible information about a targe/organisation as possible, for example, OSINT and researc 
    Enumeratio/Scanning
      This stage involves discovering applications and services running on the systems 
  
